[+] add stand-by status for path management (#117)
quicwg/multipath: draft-ietf-quic-multipath.md

over which non-probing packets have been received as available
for transmission.

## Path State Management

An endpoint uses PATH_STATUS frames to inform that the peer should

> send packets in the preference expressed by these frames.

Reviewer: I think I would be useful to explicitly state that these are indications, i.e., the peer might not follow the endhost advertisements.

Author: Added note for that.

be sent on the path that is intended to be abandoned.

## PATH_STATUS frame {#path-status-frame}

PATH_STATUS Frame are used by endpoints to inform the peer of the current 
status of one path, and the peer should send packets according to 
the preference expressed in these frames. 
PATH_STATUS frames are formatted as shown in {{fig-path-status-format}}.

~~~
  PATH_STATUS Frame {
    Type (i) = TBD-03 (experiments use 0xbaba06),
    Path Identifier (..),
    Path Status sequence number (i),
    Path Status (i),
  }
~~~
{: #fig-path-status-format title="PATH_STATUS Frame Format"}

PATH_STATUS Frames contain the following fields:

Path Identifier: An identifier of the path, which is formatted 
  as shown in {{fig-path-identifier-format}}. Exactly the same as 
  the definition of Path Identifier in {#path-abandon-frame}.

Path Status sequence number: A variable-length integer specifying 
  the sequence number assigned for this PATH_STATUS frame.

>   There is a different path status sequence number space for each path.

Reviewer 2: Actually I don't think we need to maintain the sequence number per path on the sender side. As long as the sequence number is larger than the last received for that path, you should apply it.

Author: It's ok that we maintain only one monotonically increasing sequence number for all the Path Status frame under the same connection.

Author: Updated the definition of sequence number.

be sent on the path that is intended to be abandoned.

## PATH_STATUS frame {#path-status-frame}

> PATH_STATUS Frame are used by endpoints to inform the peer of the current

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PATH_STATUS frames are used by endpoints to inform the peer of the current
```

status of one path, and the peer should send packets according to
the preference expressed in these frames.
PATH_STATUS frames are formatted as shown in {{fig-path-status-format}}.

~~~
  PATH_STATUS Frame {
    Type (i) = TBD-03 (experiments use 0xbaba06),
    Path Identifier (..),
    Path Status sequence number (i),
    Path Status (i),
  }
~~~
{: #fig-path-status-format title="PATH_STATUS Frame Format"}

PATH_STATUS Frames contain the following fields:

Path Identifier: An identifier of the path, which is formatted
  as shown in {{fig-path-identifier-format}}. Exactly the same as

>   the definition of Path Identifier in {#path-abandon-frame}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the definition of Path Identifier in {{path-abandon-frame}}.
```

Path Status sequence number: A variable-length integer specifying
  the sequence number assigned for this PATH_STATUS frame. The sequence
  number MUST be monotonically increasing for the sender of

>   the Path Status frame in the same connection.

Reviewer: Maybe we should state that the scope of the sequence number is relative to the Path Identifier? Having a single space for the whole connection might cause issues if we have different paths with different latencies.

Reviewer: Actually later this is explained, but I think it could be useful to explicitly state that here.

Author: Actually the receiver should maintain the largest received sequence number for each path. The receiver should accept the Path Status Frame if and only if its sequence number is larger than the largest received sequence number of the Path Identifier. The latencies of different paths doesn't matter, because the receiver can distinguish Status Frames for different paths with Path Identifier field, and compares the sequence numbers independently.

Reviewer: I fully agree with your description, I just suggested to make it clearer here.
```suggestion
  the sequence number assigned for this PATH_STATUS frame. The sequence
  number is relative to the Path Identifier and MUST be monotonically increasing
  for the sender of the Path Status frame in the same connection.
```

Author: I updated the description to make it clearer, and it's different for the sender and receiver side.

Available values of Path Status field are:

- 1: Standby
- 2: Available

Endpoints use PATH_STATUS frame to inform the peer whether it prefer to
use this path or not. If an endpoint receives a PATH_STATUS frame
containing 1-Standby status, it SHOULD stop sending non-probing packets

> on the corresponding path, until it receive a new PATH_STATUS frame

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the corresponding path, until it receives a new PATH_STATUS frame
```

containing 2-Available status with a higher sequence number referring to
the same path.

Frames may be received out of order. A peer MUST ignore an incoming
PATH_STATUS frame if it previously received another PATH_STATUS frame
for the same Path Identifier with a sequence number equal to or
higher than the sequence number of the incoming frame.

> PATH_STATUS frames SHOULD be acknowledged. If a packet containing

Reviewer: Do we want to state that PATH_STATUS is ack-eliciting?

Author: The acknowledgement of PATH_STATUS frame is important for the sender to check whether the receiver got the path status change or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PATH_STATUS frames are ack-eliciting. If a packet containing
```
